```
Title: Define DEX sidechain configuration
Author: Jan Hackfeld <jan.hackfeld@lightcurve.io>
Created: 2023-06-09
Updated: 2023-06-09
```

## Abstract

These specifications describe the configuration of the Lisk DEX v1 blockchain, including the selection of modules, the choice of configurable constants and the genesis block.

## Copyright

These specifications are licensed under the [Creative Commons Zero 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Motivation

The motivation for these specifications are to define the modules, configurable constants and genesis block of the Lisk DEX v1 blockchain and to have one document linking to all relevant specifications for the Lisk DEX v1 blockchain.

## Rationale

In general, the Lisk DEX v1 blockchain follows the Lisk Mainchain protocol as much as possible as the Mainchain protocol and choice of configuration constants is well-tested in practice.
Furthermore, the configuration of the [PoS module][lip-0057] with 101 active validators and 2 standby validators as well as the [Dynamic Block Rewards module][lip-0071] should ensure a good degree of decentralization, which is crucial for the security of a decentralized exchange blockchain that is expected to contain a lot of value in locked tokens across many liquidity pools.
In the following, we therefore want to focus on the aspects of the protocol that differ from the Lisk Mainchain and explain the rationale for the respective design choices.

### Genesis Block

As the Lisk DEX blockchain is a new blockchain with its own native DEX token used for staking, a suitable initial distribution of the DEX token has to be defined.
Note that the main protocol constants related to token economics, i.e., the amount of block reward and liquidity provider incentives minted, assume the initial supply of the DEX token to be 100,000,000. This corresponds to the initial supply of LSK tokens at the time of genesis of the Lisk Mainchain.
It is therefore important that total amount of tokens initially distributed is sufficiently close to this value as otherwise the token economics protocol constants should be revisited.

Furthermore, initially there will be no staked tokens and instead a trusted set of 101 bootstrap validators is required to start the blockchain as defined in the [PoS module][lip-0057].
These validators are active for `NUM_INIT_ROUNDS` rounds (see the section [Notation and Constants](#notation-and-constants) below), which is approximately one month.
This should be sufficient time for new validators to register and users to stake tokens with new validators in order to have a sufficiently high staking percentage and robust set of active validators to generate blocks after 1 month.

### Block Rewards

In the bootstrap period of 1 month, the block reward is 0, i.e., the bootstrap validators do not receive any block rewards as these validators are centrally chosen.
Block rewards will be only given to block generator after the block generators are chosen according to DEX native tokens staked by users.
The initial default reward per block is 4 DEX tokens and then gradually changes to to 3.5, 3, 2.5 and finally 2 DEX tokens, decreasing after each year. The block reward is chosen to be higher than on the Lisk Mainchain to make staking more attractive and achieve a high percentage of staked DEX tokens, which is crucial for the security of the Lisk DEX blockchain.

Note that the default block reward is equal to the amount of DEX tokens minted with every block to incentive liquidity providers, as defined in the [DEX Incentives module][dex-incentives-module].
The main reason for incentivizing validators and liquidity providers equally with new DEX tokens is to fairly incentivize the key actors required for a secure and attractive decentralized exchange for traders.
After the bootstrap period, initially 8 new DEX tokens (4 DEX tokens as block rewards and 4 DEX tokens as liquidity provider incentives) are minted per block for around 1 year (see the value of the constant `LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES` defined in the [DEX Incentives module][dex-incentives-module]).
This will imply an inflation of approximately 25 % in the first year starting from the end of the bootstrap period. This inflation will then gradually reduce as the amounts of newly minted DEX tokens for block reward and liquidity provider incentives are equally reduced after each year until they reach 2 minted DEX tokens each.

### Fees

Instead of burning the minimum fee and any additional command-specific fee incurred due to a call of the [payFee][lip-0048#payfee] method, in the Lisk DEX sidechain these fees are distributed among all validators of a round, proportional to their weight.
This is achieved by first transferring the fees to the account with address `ADDRESS_VALIDATOR_INCENTIVES` using the configurable constant `ADDRESS_FEE_POOL` defined in [LIP 0048][lip-0048] and then distributing them as defined in the [DEX Incentives module][dex-incentives-module].
The main reason for this is to make it more attractive to become a validator on the Lisk DEX blockchain due to these additional fees.
This is expected to increase the value of the DEX native token and therefore overall increase the security of the blockchain.

### DEX, DEX Incentives and DEX Governance modules

These modules contain the unique blockchain-application-specific logic for the decentralized exchange and an associated decentralized governance mechanism. The rationale for the design decisions regarding this part of the protocol is provided in the respective specification documents.

## Specification

### Notation and Constants

The table below defines some constants and notation used in the specifications below.

| Name                          | Type     | Value       | Description                                           |
|-------------------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `GENESIS_BLOCK_VERSION`       | `uint32` |    0        | The block version of the genesis block.               |
| `GENESIS_BLOCK_TIMESTAMP`     | `uint32` |    TBD      | The timestamp of the genesis block. This timestamp determines when the Lisk DEX chain starts. |
| `NUM_INIT_ROUNDS`             | `uint32`  |   2574     | The number of rounds that the bootstrap validators are active. The number of rounds is equal to `260000 // 101`. |
| `NUM_BOOTSTRAP_VALIDATORS`    | `uint32`  |   101      | The number of bootstrap validators.                   |
| `MODULE_NAME_DEX`             | `string`  |   see [DEX module][dex-module] | The module name of the DEX module.  |
| `MODULE_NAME_INTEROPERABILITY`| `string`  |   see [Interoperability module][lip-0045] | The module name of the Interoperability module. |
| `MODULE_NAME_POS`             | `string`  |   see [PoS module][lip-0057] | The module name of the PoS module.  |
| `MODULE_NAME_TOKEN`           | `string`  |   see [Token module][lip-0051] | The module name of the Token module.|
| `ADDRESS_LENGTH`              | `uint32`  |   20       | The number of bytes of an address.                    |
| `TOKEN_ID_DEX`                | `bytes`   |   TBD      | The token ID of the native token of the Lisk DEX chain. |
| `ALL_SUPPORTED_TOKENS_KEY`    | `bytes `  |   see [Token module][lip-0051]  | An internal constant of the Token module. |
| `ADDRESS_LIQUIDITY_PROVIDER_INCENTIVES`| `bytes`   |   see  [DEX module][dex-module] | The address of the liquidity provider incentives account. |
| `ADDRESS_VALIDATOR_INCENTIVES`| `bytes`   |   see  [DEX module][dex-module] | The address of the validator incentives account. |
| `ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH`   |`uint32`   | 32          | Length in bytes of an Ed25519 public keys.           |
| `BLS_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH`       |`uint32`   | 48          | Length in bytes of a BLS public key.                 |
| `BLS_POP_LENGTH`              |`uint32`   | 96          | Length in bytes of a BLS proof of possession.        |

### Engine-Specific Configurable Constants

The following table defines the configurable constants for the Lisk DEX sidechain that are related to the engine.

| LIP                | Name                        | Value          | Description                       |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------|
|[LIP 0037][lip-0037]| `CHAIN_ID`                  | see [Sidechain Registration Process](#sidechain-registration-process) section| Chain ID of the Lisk DEX chain.   |
|[LIP 0055][lip-0055]| `MAX_TRANSACTIONS_SIZE_BYTES`|15360          | Maximum size of a transaction in bytes. |
|[LIP 0055][lip-0055]| `MAX_ASSET_DATA_SIZE_BYTES` | 18             | Maximum size of the block asset in bytes.|
|[LIP 0058][lip-0058]| `BLOCK_TIME`                | 10             | Block time in seconds.            |
|[LIP 0058][lip-0058]| `LSK_BFT_BATCH_SIZE`        | 103            | BFT protocol constant.            |
|[LIP 0068][lip-0068]| `MAX_PARAMS_SIZE`           | 14336          | The maximum allowed length of the transaction parameters.|

### Modules

Lisk DEX v1 uses the following modules, where the given order defines the module registration order:

1. [Auth][lip-0041]
2. [Validators][lip-0044]
3. [Token][lip-0051]
4. [Fee][lip-0048]
5. [Interoperability][lip-0045]
6. [PoS][lip-0057]
7. [Random][lip-0046]
8. [Dynamic Block Rewards][lip-0071]
9. [DEX][dex-module]
10. [DEX Incentives][dex-incentives-module]
11. [DEX Governance][dex-governance-module]


#### Module-Specific Configurable Constants

In general, the Lisk DEX chain uses the same value for all module-specific configurable constant as also used by the Lisk Mainchain. These values can be found in the respective module LIPs and also in [LIP 0063][lip-0063#constants]. Further, the constants related to the [DEX module][dex-module#notation-and-constants], [DEX Incentives module][dex-incentives-module#notation-and-constants] and [DEX Governance module][dex-governance-module#notation-and-constants] can be found in the respective specification sections. The following table contains only constants that are chosen differently from the Lisk Mainchain values.

| Module             | Name                        | Value          | Description                       |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------|
| [PoS][lip-0057]    | `LOCKING_PERIOD_STAKING`     | 260,000        | The locking period for staking.   |
| [PoS][lip-0057]    | `PUNISHMENT_WINDOW_STAKING`  | 780,000        | The locking period for staking in case of a punishment. |
| [PoS][lip-0057]    | `TOKEN_ID_POS`              | TOKEN_ID_DEX   | The token ID of the token used for staking.  |
| [Dynamic Block Rewards][lip-0071] | `TOKEN_ID_DYNAMIC_BLOCK_REWARD` | TOKEN_ID_DEX | The token ID of the token used for block rewards.  |
| [DEX Incentives][dex-incentives-module] | `LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES` | 3153600 | The duration of the epoch after which liquidity incentives decrease. |
| [DEX Incentives][dex-incentives-module] | `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET` | 259975 | The height of the first block after the bootstrap period. |
| [Fee][lip-0048]    | `ADDRESS_FEE_POOL`     | `ADDRESS_VALIDATOR_INCENTIVES`        | Address to where the minimum fee is transferred, see [LIP 0048][lip-0048] for details. |

### Sidechain Registration Process

In this section, we describe the process of how the Lisk DEX sidechain registers on the mainchain of the desired network, obtains its chain ID and register the mainchain on its blockchain. These initial steps are necessary to establish interoperability, see the chain registration mechanism defined in [LIP 0043][lip-0043] for details.

1. On the mainchain, send a transaction `trs1` with the [sidechain registration command][lip-0043#sidechain-registration-command-1] where:
  * `trs1.params.name` is the desired name of the Lisk DEX sidechain (it must be unused),
  * `trs1.params.chainID` is the desired chain ID of the Lisk DEX sidechain (it must be unused),
  * `trs1.params.initValidators = [{ "blsKey": v.blsKey , "bftWeight": 1} for v in bootstrapInfo]` where `bootstrapInfo` is defined in the section [PoS module](#pos-module) below,
  * `trs1.params.certificateThreshold = (2 * NUM_BOOTSTRAP_VALIDATORS) // 3 + 1`.
2. After the transaction `trs1` is finalized, `CHAIN_ID = trs1.params.chainID` can be set as the chain ID value of the Lisk DEX sidechain and the Lisk DEX sidechain can be started with the genesis block defined in the section below.
3. On the Lisk DEX sidechain, sent a transaction `trs2` with the [mainchain registration command][lip-0043#mainchain-registration-command-1] where:
  * `trs2.params.ownChainID = CHAIN_ID`,
  * `trs2.params.ownName = trs1.params.name`,
  * `trs2.params.mainchainValidators` is an array with BLS keys and BFT weights of the current active validators on the mainchain,
  * `trs2.params.signature` and `trs2.params.aggregationBits` are the aggregate BLS signature and associated aggregation bits of a sufficient subset of the current active Lisk DEX validators, i.e., the bootstrap validators, that sign an object following `registrationSignatureMessageSchema` to authenticate the mainchain registration, as described in [LIP 0043][lip-0043].

After the three steps above, interoperability between the mainchain and Lisk DEX sidechain is established and the automatically generated certificates can be used to submit cross-chain update transactions to both chains.

### Genesis Block

The Lisk DEX v1 blockchain is started with a genesis block `b` following the schema defined in [LIP 0060][lip-0060##genesis-block]. The values for the header and assets properties are specified in the following subsections.

#### Header

The genesis block header follows the schema defined in [LIP 0060][lip-0060#header-of-the-genesis-block] and also must pass all validations defined in that section. This means only the block header properties given by below must be defined:

- `version = GENESIS_BLOCK_VERSION`,
- `timestamp = GENESIS_BLOCK_TIMESTAMP`,
- `height = 0`,
- `previousBlockID = 32 bytes all 0`.

#### Asset

The genesis block assets follow the schema defined in [LIP 0060][lip-0060#assets-property-of-the-genesis-block] and also must pass all validations defined in that section.
In particular, `b.assets` must be sorted by lexicographical order of the `module` property.
For the Lisk DEX v1 blockchain only for the following registered modules an entry is added to the asset of the genesis block `b.assets`:

- [DEX][dex-module]
- [Interoperability][lip-0045]
- [PoS][lip-0057]
- [Token][lip-0051]

The values for these assets is defined in the sections below.

##### DEX module

Let `genesisDEXSchema` be the schema for the genesis asset of the [DEX module][dex-module#genesis-assets-schema]. The following function then computes the genesis block asset for the DEX module.

```python
def computeDEXGenesisAsset():
    dexModuleAsset = object following genesisDEXSchema

    dexModuleAsset.poolSubstore = []
    dexModuleAsset.priceTickSubstore = []
    dexModuleAsset.positionSubstore = []
    dexModuleAsset.dexGlobalDataSubstore = {
        "positionCounter": 0,
        "poolCreationSettings": [
                {"feeTier": 500, "tickSpacing": 10},
                {"feeTier": 3000, "tickSpacing": 60},
                {"feeTier": 10000, "tickSpacing": 200}
        ],
        "incentivizedPools": [],
        "totalIncentivesMultiplier": 0
    }

    data = encode(genesisDEXSchema, dexModuleAsset)
    return {"module": MODULE_NAME_DEX, "data": data}
```

##### Interoperability module

Let `genesisInteroperabilityStoreSchema` be the schema for the genesis asset of the [Interoperability module][lip-0045#genesis-assets-schema]. The following function then computes the genesis block asset for the DEX module.

```python
def computeInteroperabilityGenesisAsset():
    interoperabilityModuleAsset = object following genesisInteroperabilityStoreSchema
    interoperabilityModuleAsset.ownChainName = ""
    interoperabilityModuleAsset.ownChainNonce = 0
    interoperabilityModuleAsset.chainInfos = []
    interoperabilityModuleAsset.terminatedStateAccounts = []
    interoperabilityModuleAsset.terminatedOutboxAccounts = []

    data = encode(genesisInteroperabilityStoreSchema, interoperabilityModuleAsset)
    return {"module": MODULE_NAME_INTEROPERABILITY, "data": data}
```

##### PoS module

We assume that the data for the bootstrap validators is given by an object `bootstrapInfo` following the `bootstrapInfoSchema` schema provided below.
The object `bootstrapInfo` must be an array of length `NUM_BOOTSTRAP_VALIDATORS` containing the basic validator-related information that is similarly required in the [validator registration command][lip-0057#validator-registration].
It is further important that the properties pass the same validations as the validator registration command, in particular, the proof of possession is valid and the validator names and addresses are all distinct.

```java
bootstrapInfoSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": ["validators"],
    "properties": {
        "validators": {
            "type": "array",
            "fieldNumber": 1,
            "items": {
                ...bootstrapValidatorInfo
            }
        }
    }
}

bootstrapValidatorInfoSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": [
        "address",
        "name",
        "blsKey",
        "proofOfPossession",
        "generatorKey"
    ],
    "properties": {
        "address": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length": ADDRESS_LENGTH,
            "fieldNumber": 1
        },
        "name": {
            "dataType": "string",
            "fieldNumber": 2
        },
        "blsKey": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length" : BLS_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH,
            "fieldNumber": 3
        },
        "proofOfPossession": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length" : BLS_POP_LENGTH,
            "fieldNumber": 4
        },
        "generatorKey": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length": ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH,
            "fieldNumber": 5
        }
    }
}
```

Let `genesisPoSStoreSchema` be the schema for the genesis asset of the PoS module defined in [LIP 0057][lip-0057#genesis-assets-schema]. The following function then computes the genesis block asset for the PoS module.

```python
def computePoSGenesisAsset():
    posModuleAsset = object following genesisPoSStoreSchema

    posModuleAsset.validators = []
    for validator in bootstrapInfo:
        posModuleAsset.validators.append({
            "address": validator.address,
            "name": validator.name,
            "blsKey": validator.blsKey,
            "proofOfPossession": validator.proofOfPossession,
            "generatorKey": validator.generatorKey,
            "lastGeneratedHeight": b.header.height,
            "isBanned": False,
            "misbehaviorReportHeights": [],
            "consecutiveMissedBlocks": 0,
            "commission": 10000,
            "lastCommissionIncreaseHeight": b.header.height,
            "sharingCoefficients": []
        })
    sort posModuleAsset.validators lexicographically by address property

    posModuleAsset.stakers = []

    posModuleAsset.genesisData = {
        "initRounds": NUM_INIT_ROUNDS
        "initValidators": [validators.address for validator in posModuleAsset.validators]

    }

    data = encode(genesisPoSStoreSchema, posModuleAsset)
    return {"module": MODULE_NAME_POS, "data": data}
```

##### Token module

Let `tokenDistribution` be an object defining the initial distribution of the DEX native token, i.e., a list of addresses and the associated initial balance of DEX native tokens, following `tokenDistributionSchema` defined below. 
The array `tokenDistribution.accounts` must contain an entry for the addresses `ADDRESS_LIQUIDITY_PROVIDER_INCENTIVES` and `ADDRESS_VALIDATOR_INCENTIVES` both with `balance` property equal to `0` so the corresponding accounts are initialized during the processing of the genesis block.
It further has to be ensured that the addresses in `tokenDistribution.accounts` are unique.

```java
tokenDistributionSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": ["accounts"],
    "properties": {
        "accounts": {
            "type": "array",
            "fieldNumber": 1,
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "required": ["address", "balance"],
                "properties": {
                    "address" : {
                        "dataType": "bytes",
                        "length": ADDRESS_LENGTH,
                        "fieldNumber": 1
                    },
                    "balance": {
                        "dataType": "uint64",
                        "fieldNumber": 2
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Let further `genesisTokenStoreSchema` be the schema for the genesis asset of the Token module defined in [LIP 0051][lip-0051#genesis-assets-schema]. The following function then computes the genesis block asset for the Token module.

```python
def computeTokenGenesisAsset():
    tokenModuleAsset = object following genesisTokenStoreSchema

    tokenModuleAsset.userSubstore = []
    totalSupply = 0
    for account in tokenDistribution:
        tokenModuleAsset.userSubstore.append({
            "address": account.address,
            "tokenID": TOKEN_ID_DEX,
            "availableBalance": account.balance,
            "lockedBalances": []
        })
        totalSupply += account.balance
    sort tokenModuleAsset.userSubstore lexicographically by address property

    tokenModuleAsset.supplySubstore = [{
        "tokenID":  TOKEN_ID_DEX,
        "totalSupply": totalSupply
    }]

    tokenModuleAsset.escrowSubstore = []

    tokenModuleAsset.supportedTokensSubstore = [{
        "chainID":  ALL_SUPPORTED_TOKENS_KEY,
        "supportedTokenIDs": []
    }]

    data = encode(genesisTokenStoreSchema, tokenModuleAsset)
    return {"module": MODULE_NAME_TOKEN, "data": data}
```

### Dynamic Block Rewards module

The reward brackets for the [Dynamic Block Rewards][lip-0071] are given in the following table.

| Height `h`                                                                                          | Default Reward |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
|  `h < BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET`                                                                                       |         0      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET <= h < LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES + BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET`                                           | 400000000      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET + LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES <= h < 2 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES + BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET`    | 350000000      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET + 2 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES <= h < 3 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES + BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET`| 300000000      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET + 3 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES <= h < 4 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES + BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET`| 250000000      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PERIOD_OFFSET + 4 * LENGTH_EPOCH_REWARDS_INCENTIVES <= h`                                                | 200000000      |

## Backwards Compatibility

These specifications describe the configuration and protocol for a new blockchain. Hence, backwards compatibility is not relevant.

## Reference Implementation

TBD

[lip-0037]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0037.md
[lip-0041]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0041.md
[lip-0043]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0043.md
[lip-0043#sidechain-registration-command-1]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0043.md#sidechain-registration-command-1
[lip-0043#mainchain-registration-command-1]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0043.md#mainchain-registration-command-1
[lip-0044]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0044.md
[lip-0045]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0045.md
[lip-0045#genesis-assets-schema]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0045.md#genesis-assets-schema
[lip-0046]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0046.md
[lip-0048]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0048.md
[lip-0048#payfee]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0048.md#payfee
[lip-0051]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0051.md
[lip-0051#genesis-assets-schema]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0051.md#genesis-assets-schema
[lip-0055]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0055.md
[lip-0057]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0057.md
[lip-0057#genesis-assets-schema]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0057.md#genesis-assets-schema
[lip-0057#validator-registration]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0057.md#validator-registration
[lip-0058]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0058.md
[lip-0060##genesis-block]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0060.md#genesis-block
[lip-0060#header-of-the-genesis-block]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0060.md#header-of-the-genesis-block
[lip-0060#assets-property-of-the-genesis-block]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0060.md#assets-property-of-the-genesis-block
[lip-0063#constants]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0063.md#constants-1
[lip-0068]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0068.md
[lip-0071]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0071.md
[dex-module]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0001.md
[dex-module#genesis-assets-schema]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0001.md#genesis-assets-schema
[dex-module#notation-and-constants]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0001.md#notation-and-constants
[dex-incentives-module]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0004.md
[dex-incentives-module#notation-and-constants]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0004.md#notation-and-constants
[dex-governance-module]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0005.md
[dex-governance-module#notation-and-constants]: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-dex-specs/blob/main/specifications/0005.md#notation-and-constants